In the words of a great man,
"We can be heroes."
Let's save the world.
Bloody hell,
this place is incredible.
I feel like I know you,
or I'm going to know you.
Or I've known you forever.
The tides have drawn us together.
If Homo Aqua want
a war between the land and the sea,
- we'll take the sea.
- Sir, this kind
of rhetoric is irresponsible.
If you're trying to keep the peace,
you've already failed.
Welcome...
..to our domain.
Does the word "Severance" mean
anything to you?
Coded messages going back and forth.
Your war...
..is lost.
WHALE SINGS
SCREAMING
Shots fired! Shots fired!
Man down! Code Red!
Urgent assistance required!
Code Red. All ground teams,
Sandown Building!
- Code Red!
- Go! Come on!
Target building opposite.
India House.
Estimate floor 35.
Squad Three, Sandown Building.
Squad Four, India House.
Emergency comms from the Diplomatic
Zone, we have an event.
- What does that mean?
- A sonic pulse.
- Integrity lost.
Jane, please, what does that mean?
They're dead.
All comms through me, register
Shirley Anne Bingham now in command.
Options one to five schematics
installed,
all stations on Red Alert.
Tell me, what do we know?
Gunman sighted!
Ma'am, we're under fire!
SIREN WAILS
Shots fired! Suspect down.
No signs of life.
Suspect terminated.
Who is he?
Shirley, do we know who he is?
Apologies, ma'am, we don't know.
And I'm sorry, but we have a major
incident in progress.
And we're getting news
from military sources.
Er, I'm sorry, this just coming
into us at 5am GMT.
But it's just been confirmed
that there has been
an underwater explosion at the site
of the diplomatic meeting.
It's assumed that all human
diplomats have perished
and their diplomacy efforts
have failed.
This represents a major escalation
in the war
between Homo Aqua and mankind.
And the Homo Aqua ambassador has
issued a statement
claiming responsibility for
the deaths of the H2O diplomats.
What?!
This is a warning
to the human race.
Your diplomats are dead.
Their blood and marrow now feed
our children.
The same fate will befall anyone who
dares to enter our waters.
The time for diplomacy is over.
Our borders are defended
and forbidden.
The water of the world will
never be yours again.
Where is this from?
Steve, is that real?
- Could be a deepfake.
- Then find out!
We have a visual on the target.
It wasn't Salt.
I swear to you, I'm a witness.
The device was exploded by
Ted Campbell.
Theodore Campbell, OK?
He was the one...
They all died.
They were crushed...
..right in front of me.
In one second flat,
they were gone.
Can I ask...
- ..how old was Min?
- 28.
If it's any consolation, it must
have been instantaneous.
No, no, they knew.
In that second...
..I'm sorry, they knew.
OK.
We've told your family you're safe.
And the most important thing now
is for you to get back here.
Thank you, Mrs Bingham,
transfer to my desk.
You shouldn't be here.
Mr Pierre-Dupont, there is
one fundamental question.
How the hell did you survive?
I'm not sure I did.
You were lucky.
That was a very long night.
Yeah.
We lost, erm...
We lost many good people.
Did you survive because of her?
Yeah. She...
Yeah, she held me.
And I don't know how or why.
You do know that broadcast is
a fake, right?
I mean, for God's sake,
she's here with us.
You took her on board,
she could've escaped,
she had the whole ocean,
but she didn't!
She stayed...
..with me.
And now you've got her under lock
and key.
- Why don't you just talk to her?
- We'll do that, on dry land.
All right, well, let me -
LET ME talk to her!
I'm afraid that's not possible.
You have to remember,
five people are dead,
and that happened on Aquakind
territory.
In the eyes of the world,
she's taken responsibility.
I can offer you no compromise.
Salt is a prisoner of war.
SCREAMING
And the names of the diplomats
killed in the undersea explosion
have now been confirmed.
These include Unit Staff Captain
Louise Mackie,
General Austin Pierce,
and Chief Technician Min Tso...
I don't suppose there's ever
going to be a body?
Don't think so.
That sketch pad.
She was always drawing.
- CLEARS THROAT
- Erm, where shall I take this?
Sergeant Lake, he can pass it on.
Louise's mother lives in Kirkcaldy.
I'll take them.
I'll visit her mother in person.
In Kirkcaldy? When are you going to
find time for that?
She died under my instructions.
I will find the time.
Give us ten minutes.
Any word from undersea?
It's gone quiet.
And you're going to need
a personal guard.
Oh, I'm not going to be
followed night and day.
Kate, someone tried to kill
you, not Christofer.
Oh, we've identified the assassin.
Here he is.
Miklos Constantinos.
Born in Athens, 1985.
Relieved of command
from the Hellenic Army 2010.
Crops up as a mercenary with
pro-Gaddafi forces in 2011.
Gun for hire.
But one of the best.
He's been invisible since 2019.
If there's any connection to Libya,
- then it's possible that he was...
- KATE SOBS
Oh, God.
So, the question is...
The question is, who hired him?
But this is nothing to do with us.
Please tell me this is absolutely
nothing to do with us!
We'd never be so stupid.
If I wanted
Kate Lethbridge-Stewart dead,
I could do it
in the blink of an eye.
You will watch your tone, sir.
That woman serves this world in ways
we can never imagine.
But still, we might be in trouble.
We have links suggesting this man
was employed by
the Institute of Las Clementi -
the same people who sent
Ted Campbell on his mission.
Ted Campbell had
stage four pancreatic cancer.
Happy to give his life
for the Institute.
But who are the Institute?
A private think-tank founded
and supported by billionaires.
And their motives are clear.
The Great Replacement Theory.
Terrified of Homo Aqua
replacing mankind.
But they are literally
nothing to do with us!
That explosion, there is
no connection to us,
not in any way, shape or form!
Is there?
I can close the Institute, going
in with force within two hours.
Hand them over to Unit.
Case closed.
Lethbridge-Stewart is safe.
But one problem remains.
Campbell was an associate
of Sir Keith Spears,
your greatest donor
and your very good friend.
Yeah, but he's not part of it,
is he?
He's an idiot. The man's a clown!
No, but the problem is he invested
£100,000
in the Las Clementi Institute
in 2015.
I don't imagine he's
connected to the explosion,
not for a single second.
He's too much of a coward.
But the authorities will
find the link,
and if they investigate
Sir Keith...
He is part of Severance.
He automatically creates
a link back to us.
Oh, my God.
Exactly.
We're connected.
It's, erm, unlucky.
Stupid man.
What do we do?
Sir Keith Spears is a major investor
in the privatised water companies.
A lot of people blame the water
companies for provoking the ocean.
So?
Prime Minister,
all I need to know is,
do you give me
permission to deal with this?
With no connection to me?
With no connection to you.
Then do it.
They'll look after her.
Where are they taking her?
Unit Tower. She'll be safe.
They said that to us.
Look at you, boss!
Come on, show some respect.
- Mr Ambassador!
- All right.
I was saying to the boys, "Two weeks
ago he was sitting in the office,
"signing off my overtime."
Now you're on TV.
I said to the boys,
"I hope he's getting paid."
Yeah, no, I'm good,
I'm good, erm...
Yeah, I'm OK. Yeah. You know.
Are you sure you're all right,
though, boss?
Cos that was kind of mad.
They said you was right at
the bottom of the sea.
It was, erm...
It was crazy, yeah.
And she's in there? The fish?
Yeah.
She's sushi, mate.
CHUCKLING
That's, er...
That's kind of offensive, mate.
Oh, no, but come on!
She murdered all those people.
She's going straight to the lab
and she's going to be
sliced and diced.
CHUCKLING
Er, I'm going to get back to
work, actually.
Starting about now.
Give me the keys
and I'll move her out.
- Nah, I got this.
- No, I know you have.
But, er, I can do it.
Just give me the keys, yeah?
- But they signed me on this.
- Yeah, but who clears the signatures?
That would be me.
Come on, who's the boss?
He told me to give him the keys!
Barclay, what are you doing?
Barclay, stop and get out of there!
Hey, come on, man!
Don't get me in trouble!
Go, go!
- At arms!
- Get down! Get off the truck!
Barclay, this is not the solution.
Now step down and I promise you
we can talk this through.
We can talk with Salt, OK?
Just look around.
There's no way you're going to
get through us!
Like you're going to shoot me
in front of the press!
- Like you're going to drive
right through them!
- Yeah?
Who said I was going forward?
Oh, my God! Don't blame me!
Barclay, don't, don't, don't!
Go down to the river.
Spread out. Get me boats on
the water, now.
Sorry, ma'am, we've got a problem.
Barclay-bloody-Pierre-stupid
name-Dupont!
Breaking news now, with reports
that the only survivors
of the H2O tragedy are on the run.
Oh, my God, he jumped!
He actually jumped!
Why did he do that?
SPEAKS MANDARIN
Is Barclay Dupont a collaborator?
It certainly looks that way.
The Americans have
taken down the Institute,
- so it looks like you're safe.
- Hmm.
And if you don't stop work,
I'm going to phone your daughter
and get her to carry you out.
She's in Dubai.
Did she know about you
and Christofer?
I thought no-one did.
For what it's worth, we were all
very happy for you.
I'm so sorry.
- I'll sign off.
- Where will you go?
Oh, hotel.
I just need to get out.
I'm sorry, ma'am? Morris was asking
if we should look into this?
Oh, it's a...
it's an act of terrorism.
That's the police,
nothing to do with us.
No. Wait.
- Investigate.
- Yes, ma'am.
And with that, goodnight.
ALARM BLARES
Sensors triggered at
the Thames Barrier!
- We've got life forms, ma'am!
- What life forms?
Incoming, straight from the Channel!
Good evening, everyone,
nice to be back.
Nine life forms in total,
heading in our direction.
Recall delegates, staff
and security to the Empress Hall.
Priority One Standby.
Everyone on maximum alert.
But who's the Ambassador?
Sir Jonathan is 40 minutes away.
I'm trying Admiral Tavarez
but there's no reply.
I'll do it.
But you're exhausted.
You haven't had time to stop.
- Are you saying I'm unfit for duty?
- Yes.
- Noted.
We have eight Homo Aquaform
and one life form that's brand-new.
Homo Amphibia, male presenting.
Body mass index 22.4.
Blood pressure,
heart rate, both strong.
Cortisol and adrenaline
off the scale.
He's a warrior.
My name is Kate Lethbridge-Stewart,
Commander in Chief
of the Unified Intelligence
Taskforce, but I stand
before you tonight on behalf of
the nations of the Earth with a...
Why are you all insane?
- Right.
- You came to our world...
..and killed yourselves to make
everything that is happening worse.
Why in the name of the waters
would you do that?
Why are you beasts of such insanity?
- Page five, paragraph two?
- No, go to page six.
- Try page 22, from the top.
- I, er...
- Oh, here we go.
- She's gone rogue.
Even better.
I can only say...
..that if you study
the culture of this world,
the thousands of years of fiction
and stories and science
and philosophy, and not one of us
can answer your question.
We are a species whose intelligence
is running so fast,
it's 1,000 years ahead of
our emotions,
and that causes us to
stumble and fall,
time and time again.
And I am sorry.
I accept that response.
And I'm addressing Ambassador...?
My name is a wave on the currents
through the coral and the sand,
but you might call me Tide.
Ambassador Tide.
Now, where is she?
- Who?
- Ambassador Salt.
I...I can't say.
She is your prisoner?
Technically.
You must understand,
I ask this not in a bid for
her freedom.
Then what do you want?
She chose to save a human life
and left Aquakind to die.
We were murdered
while she helped him.
Salt has transgressed against
the laws of our nature,
and the fate she must suffer
exists under the sea,
not upon the land.
Now, I demand to know...
..where is she?
You've lost her?
With his help.
What is it that binds
these two together?
We are trying to find them.
But the problem is, Ambassador...
..if you intend to punish her,
I can't hand her over.
Then yet again, we are at war.
You're something of a warrior
yourself, and yet
full of despair.
Despair that is new.
I lost someone.
That is good.
You will strive to prevent
losses to come.
Because we are tired of waiting.
And if we have to escalate the war
between us, then we will.
What does that mean?
You have met Salt.
You have met Tide.
Beware our third ambassador...
..Rust.
Because water is not confined to
the seas.
Water is in the air.
And we can make a weapon of that
water to create rust.
Eating at your cities
and cars and missiles,
until it brings your civilisation
down from rust
into dust.
These negotiations are over.
You will find Salt.
You will return her to us.
You will advance the plans to
change your world
- within five years.
- That's impossible.
Make it possible.
One more thing.
Yes?
Change the name.
The name of what?
Earth.
Too dry.
- Oh, we got owned.
- We got rusted.
We need to find Salt.
Why?
We've tested the samples
but we've never tried Severance
on an adult Homo Amphibian.
But they're leaders,
they're the prime species.
If we can use Salt, I can
end this war...tomorrow.
I reckon I've got dysentery.
And E. coli,
and probably leprosy,
cos that river was filthy!
My neck...
Ah, it feels like it's been snapped.
GLASS SHATTERS
Hey, oi, oi! What are you doing?!
What you doing?!
SHE CHUCKLES
Glass is fascinating!
Can you imagine, when we woke
and saw this world
with all its structures?
All right, well, just...
just mind your feet,
you don't want to get a cut.
Oh, God!
You're always so scared.
Yeah, I am. I am terrified.
You won't die. I cleaned you.
Of protozoa. I took your breath
and my gills filtered the dirt.
That's amazing.
You do know you saved my life
down there,
when you kissed me?
Is that what you call a kiss?
The pressure of two orifices sealed
together in order to preserve
a hyperbaric shield for the
maintenance of your lung capacity?
Now, now, don't start talking sexy.
- It is a good neck.
- Mm-hm.
- Strong.
- Yep, yep.
You should possess
gill-form lamellae.
After all, you already
have very good fins.
Is that a joke? Joke? That was...
That was a joke.
I mean, wow, we're just...
on the run.
People from both our worlds
chasing us
and she develops a sense of humour.
I am liberated!
SHE EMITS HIGH-PITCHED TRILLING
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Salt! Salt, come on, come on!
We're supposed to be hiding!
It is ululation.
- Do you not?
- No.
TRILLING
God...!
HE YELPS
THEY YELP
What's it like, under the water?
Do you...? Do you have family?
We mate at random and spawn
in our thousands.
But we're capable of more.
We have happiness, we have anger,
we have love, we have...
Oh, we have the water, Barclay.
We live in the water,
of the water, for the water,
with so much passion.
We must look like apes to you.
I mean, we are apes, clodding
about on the land like...
Well, like apes.
You've been to the stars.
You've mapped entire galaxies
in the sky.
We never did that.
Maybe we were too proud
of the water.
Maybe it weighed us down.
If you went back, what would happen?
What would they do to you? Aquakind.
I would swim alone.
Right, but just not, like,
executed or...?
Worse than that.
I would swim alone, forever,
in the vastness.
Like a shark?
A shark has a soul that is dead.
I would live with a dead soul.
I think you understand that.
There's a loneliness in you.
Yeah.
You people are so...constructed.
You apply fabric to your bodies,
leather on your feet.
And you walk in the air with
such pomposity,
but underneath, you burn
with animal heat.
You're creatures of fire and doubt
and envy and fear and laughter
and lust and...
We watched you for so long,
under the sea.
We could feel you,
burning on the land.
I think we would have
always found you.
Because your heat is irresistible.
Is that fear?
What?
Your heartbeat.
Racing.
Er, it's not fear, exactly.
Your heart is clamouring now.
Yeah, yeah, of course, my heart.
And my head, cos we were going
to die, 8km down.
And I've got this ringing noise
in my ears, and this pain,
and when you created that hyperbaric
thing, everything just felt
so much better when you pressed
your lips against mine...
I find you unique.
Oh, I really thought your skin
was going to be cold.
I can regulate my body.
- For you.
- Yeah, I'm sort of
regulating my body for you, too.
So I see.
Is that OK?
It's wonderful.
SIREN WAILS
SHE SOBS
The name I chose was appropriate,
because you taste of salt.
Well, you taste of, erm...
I don't know.
Horizons.
HELICOPTER PASSES
Are they searching for us?
The whole city's on red alert,
so, yeah,
I reckon they're looking for you.
You work with the Army.
Is there no-one you can trust?
Oh, I don't know.
My lot are tough.
They're beyond the Army,
they're beyond the police.
They're, like, at the top and if you
disobey the rules, you vanish.
The woman in charge.
Yeah, that's
Kate Lethbridge-Stewart.
She's a good soul.
Yeah.
How do you get to her?
You don't have to stay with me.
You could just...
..swim away.
The moment I enter the water,
they will know.
They will find me.
And they will punish.
OK, er, options.
So, we need to
get out of the city, right?
Because everyone's on red alert
and it's, like, lawless out there.
You're public enemy number one,
so am I.
We're going to get shot
in the street.
So we need to find out. I mean...
Oh, hang on a minute, we could go
to North Wales.
Cos I know some people there,
I know this guy there,
and he's done, like, five years
in the regular army.
I mean, he'll hide us, he's
off grid. He's nuts, but at least
if we can get there, we can work out
what we can do next
and then, then, then, then we can
get a message to Kate,
cos we can...we can...we can talk
to her then, we can try.
I can live in this North of Wales?
Oh, God, yeah. Yeah, it's got
lakes and waterfalls.
- It's beautiful.
- I could live
in lakes and waterfalls.
I could be the witch
of the waterfall!
Yeah, you could be the witch
of the waterfall. I just... Oh!
Live with me in the waterfall.
But how would we get there?
Both the land and the sea
are closed to us.
Yeah, and my phone's
probably tapped,
and the minute I make a call they're
going to know where we are.
I just...
Did I mention to you that
it's lawless out there?
Oi, oi, oi, oi, oi,
oi, oi, oi, oi, oi!
I got you, I got you, I got you.
Come on, just calm down,
it's all going to be OK.
I just want your phone, mate.
OK? Stop moving,
stop trying to run away,
or she will eat you alive, mate.
She will eat you like bait, mate.
Ain't that right, Monstro?
SHE HISSES
Hey, yeah. Oh...
Oh, hang on.
What's this? Here we go.
What have you got on that,
face lock? Smile for the camera.
Ah, thank you for your services
to king and country.
If you tell anyone about this,
she will find you at midnight
and she'll eat you.
Go on, then, off you pop!
PANICKED YELLING
We're a good team.
Shall I hiss again?
Er, no. We're done.
So they are definitely going to be
monitoring my family phone,
but Kirby has got a second phone
in secret,
because Barbara, that's my ex,
insists on reading Kirby's texts -
says they're not old enough, which
drives Kirby mad -
so I did a dad thing on the sly,
just to buy favours,
and I got Kirby a second line.
HE EXHALES
OK.
PHONE BUZZES
- Hello?
- Kirby, it's me.
Oh, my God!
Don't...say my name.
I'm fine, I'm fine.
I...I am so fine, I am OK,
- but I haven't got much battery on
this phone.
- Where are you?
You need to listen, we've got to be
really careful, love, OK?
Because they might have wired the
room. No, they-they-they will
definitely have wired the room,
so we've got to be so careful.
- If I could, I just need
to speak to Mum.
- She's asleep.
Erm, OK, just tell her to, er,
call me back on this number.
But just tell her to call me from
the bathroom, OK?
Just tell her, do not talk in
public. Have you got that, Kirby?
Are you with HER?
I am. And it's good. I swear.
I, er...I love you, Kirby.
I love you so much.
Please?
- Mum?
- Yeah, love.
What is it? Are you OK?
So I need to borrow the car,
but I promise you,
you'll get it back. I mean, you
might not get it back straight away,
but you will definitely get it back.
- I just need to get out of the city.
- And you're with...Salt?
Yeah, I'm sorry, I need to
protect her. Trust me.
Please, it'll make sense. Now,
listen, they can't stop you leaving
the hotel, but you will need
a permit to drive across the city
in the car at night.
So if you go to my stuff,
there's a little leather folder
with a, like, a zip on it.
- Do you know the one I mean?
- I've got it.
You've got it? Right, so in there
is a permit, it's like a...
It's like a white card, it's got
red around the edges,
it's got a "U" in the middle of it.
If you just put that
in the windscreen, that will just
get you through anywhere.
Erm, but where do you want me
to meet you?
Well, listen, most of the roads
have been closed off,
but you can get through
the Festival Bridge.
Is that good, in, like, 30 minutes?
- I mean, we'll be coming from the
south side.
- You and her?
- Look, I promise you, I swear,
she's on our side.
- OK.
We did it.
Right.
- Ma'am ...
- Oh, for God's sake!
- It's Barclay, ma'am.
- It bloody would be!
One hour's sleep. Thank you,
Mr Dupont. Now what have we got?
He made contact with his family.
Rendezvous, Festival Bridge,
20 minutes.
Captain Hannigan is taking a squad
from the north.
That's less than a kilometre
from here.
You know Barclay, he trusts you. Go!
We've got Captain Khumalo
in St Saviour's.
She's moving in to give us coverage
from the south.
- And this is Barclay and Salt?
- Barclay and Salt, ma'am.
Unit intercept Dupont
and the creature.
SE1 8XT, grid 44 by 56.
You have full authority.
Get me the amphibian.
Move, move, move!
Ma'am, I've got confirmation!
- Not now!
- But Salt's confession is a
deepfake, just like we thought!
It's coded. Las Clementi.
She never said those things.
- This is a warning.
- Look, the video is fake.
She's innocent.
Oh, I can't tell.
Is that the car?
Yes! It's her!
Come on!
Eyes on target.
Corporal.
What have you got? Sorry, Control,
I've got nothing to the south?
I thought we had Captain Khumalo
covering the south approach?
- Where's Captain Khumalo?
- Not getting a reply.
Everything's gone quiet
south of the river.
- What do you mean, quiet?
- Captain Khumalo? Can you report?
Captain...?
Targets sighted
and Captain Khumalo contained.
Hold your positions.
Barclay, run! It's a trap!
Run!
Go, go, go!
SIREN WAILS
We've got them! Go, go, go!
Who the hell are they?!
- General Gunsberg.
- He's intercepted our comms.
General, this is a UNIT operation.
You will withdraw!
Complain to Geneva. We have
a war criminal on British soil.
General Gunsberg, we have proof.
Salt is not a criminal.
We'll happily examine that proof
in the morning.
Right now we
have a murderer on the loose.
Barclay, stay where you are!
Both of you! DO! NOT! MOVE!
You'll both walk towards us!
You are prisoners
of the British Army.
You will surrender to us!
General, you do not command
British troops.
Whitehall has given me authority.
We have a civilian on the bridge!
No, no, no, leave
her alone! Get off her!
Private comms to Sergeant Abrams.
We don't actually need her alive.
Her body is all we need.
I can't let you do this.
Unit troops, target soldiers.
North axis, grid 49.
What?!
Salt, go! Go to the river!
Go to the river!
Open fire at my command.
On my command, fire at will.
Those are British soldiers on
British soil! You wouldn't dare!
You'll wait a long time,
General, till I give way!
- Kate! Don't!
- On my command!
HIGH-PITCHED SCREECHING
ALL GROAN
Go.
I'll find you, Salt! I'LL FIND YOU!
You'll never swim alone!
You will NEVER! SWIM! ALONE!